README.md, before:

# revm

[![CI](https://github.com/bluealloy/revm/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)][gh-ci]
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-orange.svg)][mit-license]
[![Chat][tg-badge]][tg-url]

[mit-license]: https://opensource.org/license/mit/
[gh-ci]: https://github.com/bluealloy/revm/actions/workflows/ci.yml
[tg-url]: https://t.me/+Ig4WDWOzikA3MzA0
[tg-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-telegram-blue

**Rust Ethereum Virtual Machine**

![](./assets/revm-banner.png)

Revm is an EVM written in Rust that is focused on **speed** and **simplicity**.
It has a fast and flexible implementation with a simple interface and embedded Host.
It passes all `ethereum/tests` test suites.

Here is a list of guiding principles that Revm follows.

* **EVM compatibility and stability** - this goes without saying but it is nice to put it here. In the blockchain industry, stability is the most desired attribute of any system.
* **Speed** - is one of the most important things and most decisions are made to complement this.
* **Simplicity** - simplification of internals so that it can be easily understood and extended, and interface that can be easily used or integrated into other projects.
* **interfacing** - `[no_std]` so that it can be used as wasm lib and integrate with JavaScript and cpp binding if needed.

# Project

Structure:

* crates
  * revm -> main EVM library.
  * revm-primitives -> Primitive data types.
  * revm-interpreter -> Execution loop with instructions
  * revm-precompile -> EVM precompiles
* bins:
  * revme: cli binary, used for running state test jsons

This project tends to use the newest rust version, so if you're encountering a build error try running `rustup update` first.

There were some big efforts on optimization of revm:

* Optimizing interpreter loop: https://github.com/bluealloy/revm/issues/7
* Introducing Bytecode format (and better bytecode analysis): https://github.com/bluealloy/revm/issues/121
* Unification of instruction signatures: https://github.com/bluealloy/revm/pull/283

# Building from source

```shell
git clone https://github.com/bluealloy/revm.git
cd revm
cargo build --release
```

**_Note:_** `clang` is required for building revm with `c-kzg` or `secp256k1` feature flags as they depend on `C` libraries. If you don't have it installed, you can install it with `apt install clang`.

# Running eth tests

go to `cd bins/revme/`

Download eth tests from (this will take some time): `git clone https://github.com/ethereum/tests`

run tests with command: `cargo run --release -- statetest tests/GeneralStateTests/ tests/LegacyTests/Constantinople/GeneralStateTests`

`GeneralStateTests` contains all tests related to EVM.

## Running benchmarks

TODO needs to be updated. Benches can now be found inside `crates/revm/benches`

```shell
cargo run --package revm-test --release --bin snailtracer
```

The following flamegraph will require installing [flamegraph] by running `cargo install flamegraph`.

[flamegraph]: https://docs.rs/crate/flamegraph/0.1.6

```shell
cargo flamegraph --root --freq 4000 --min-width 0.001 --package revm-test --bin snailtracer
```

This command will produce a flamegraph image output to `flamegraph.svg`.
Flamegraph also requires sudo mode to run (hence the `--root` cli arg) and will prompt you for your password if not in sudo mode already.

## Running example

```shell
cargo run -p revm --features ethersdb --example fork_ref_transact
```

# Used by:

* [Foundry](https://github.com/foundry-rs/foundry) is a blazing fast, portable and modular toolkit for Ethereum application development written in Rust.
* [Helios](https://github.com/a16z/helios) is a fully trustless, efficient, and portable Ethereum light client written in Rust.
* [Reth](https://github.com/paradigmxyz/reth) Modular, contributor-friendly and blazing-fast implementation of the Ethereum protocol
* [Arbiter](https://github.com/primitivefinance/arbiter) is a framework for stateful Ethereum smart-contract simulation
* [Zeth](https://github.com/risc0/zeth) is an open-source ZK block prover for Ethereum built on the RISC Zero zkVM.
* ...

(If you want to add project to the list, ping me or open the PR)

# Documentation

The book can be found at github page here: https://bluealloy.github.io/revm/

The documentation (alas needs some love) can be found here: https://bluealloy.github.io/revm/docs/

To serve the mdbook documentation in a local environment, ensure you have mdbook installed (if not install it with cargo) and then run:

```shell
mdbook serve documentation
```

# Contact

There is public telegram group: https://t.me/+Ig4WDWOzikA3MzA0

Or if you want to hire me or contact me directly, here is my email: dragan0rakita@gmail.com and telegram: https://t.me/draganrakita

Commit message:

feat(examples): generate block traces (#895)

README.md, after:

# revm

[![CI](https://github.com/bluealloy/revm/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)][gh-ci]
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-orange.svg)][mit-license]
[![Chat][tg-badge]][tg-url]

[mit-license]: https://opensource.org/license/mit/
[gh-ci]: https://github.com/bluealloy/revm/actions/workflows/ci.yml
[tg-url]: https://t.me/+Ig4WDWOzikA3MzA0
[tg-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-telegram-blue

**Rust Ethereum Virtual Machine**

![](./assets/revm-banner.png)

Revm is an EVM written in Rust that is focused on **speed** and **simplicity**.
It has a fast and flexible implementation with a simple interface and embedded Host.
It passes all `ethereum/tests` test suites.

Here is a list of guiding principles that Revm follows.

* **EVM compatibility and stability** - this goes without saying but it is nice to put it here. In the blockchain industry, stability is the most desired attribute of any system.
* **Speed** - is one of the most important things and most decisions are made to complement this.
* **Simplicity** - simplification of internals so that it can be easily understood and extended, and interface that can be easily used or integrated into other projects.
* **interfacing** - `[no_std]` so that it can be used as wasm lib and integrate with JavaScript and cpp binding if needed.

# Project

Structure:

* crates
  * revm -> main EVM library.
  * revm-primitives -> Primitive data types.
  * revm-interpreter -> Execution loop with instructions
  * revm-precompile -> EVM precompiles
* bins:
  * revme: cli binary, used for running state test jsons

This project tends to use the newest rust version, so if you're encountering a build error try running `rustup update` first.

There were some big efforts on optimization of revm:

* Optimizing interpreter loop: https://github.com/bluealloy/revm/issues/7
* Introducing Bytecode format (and better bytecode analysis): https://github.com/bluealloy/revm/issues/121
* Unification of instruction signatures: https://github.com/bluealloy/revm/pull/283

# Building from source

```shell
git clone https://github.com/bluealloy/revm.git
cd revm
cargo build --release
```

**_Note:_** `clang` is required for building revm with `c-kzg` or `secp256k1` feature flags as they depend on `C` libraries. If you don't have it installed, you can install it with `apt install clang`.

# Running eth tests

go to `cd bins/revme/`

Download eth tests from (this will take some time): `git clone https://github.com/ethereum/tests`

run tests with command: `cargo run --release -- statetest tests/GeneralStateTests/ tests/LegacyTests/Constantinople/GeneralStateTests`

`GeneralStateTests` contains all tests related to EVM.

## Running benchmarks

TODO needs to be updated. Benches can now be found inside `crates/revm/benches`

```shell
cargo run --package revm-test --release --bin snailtracer
```

The following flamegraph will require installing [flamegraph] by running `cargo install flamegraph`.

[flamegraph]: https://docs.rs/crate/flamegraph/0.1.6

```shell
cargo flamegraph --root --freq 4000 --min-width 0.001 --package revm-test --bin snailtracer
```

This command will produce a flamegraph image output to `flamegraph.svg`.
Flamegraph also requires sudo mode to run (hence the `--root` cli arg) and will prompt you for your password if not in sudo mode already.

## Running examples

```shell
cargo run -p revm --features ethersdb --example fork_ref_transact
```

Generate block traces and write them to json files in a new `traces/` directory.
Each file corresponds to a transaction in the block and is named as such: `<tx index>.json`.

```shell
cargo run -p revm --features std,serde,ethersdb --example generate_block_traces
```

# Used by:

* [Foundry](https://github.com/foundry-rs/foundry) is a blazing fast, portable and modular toolkit for Ethereum application development written in Rust.
* [Helios](https://github.com/a16z/helios) is a fully trustless, efficient, and portable Ethereum light client written in Rust.
* [Reth](https://github.com/paradigmxyz/reth) Modular, contributor-friendly and blazing-fast implementation of the Ethereum protocol
* [Arbiter](https://github.com/primitivefinance/arbiter) is a framework for stateful Ethereum smart-contract simulation
* [Zeth](https://github.com/risc0/zeth) is an open-source ZK block prover for Ethereum built on the RISC Zero zkVM.
* ...

(If you want to add project to the list, ping me or open the PR)

# Documentation

The book can be found at github page here: https://bluealloy.github.io/revm/

The documentation (alas needs some love) can be found here: https://bluealloy.github.io/revm/docs/

To serve the mdbook documentation in a local environment, ensure you have mdbook installed (if not install it with cargo) and then run:

```shell
mdbook serve documentation
```

# Contact

There is public telegram group: https://t.me/+Ig4WDWOzikA3MzA0

Or if you want to hire me or contact me directly, here is my email: dragan0rakita@gmail.com and telegram: https://t.me/draganrakita
