documentation/src/crates/revm.md, before:

# Rust Ethereum Virtual Machine (revm)

The `crate` is focused on the implementation of Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) including database handling, state journaling, and an inspection system for observing and logging the execution of EVM. This crate pulls together everything described prior to deliver the rust evm.

Modules:

- `db`: This module includes structures and functions for database interaction.
- `evm`: This module contains a Struct that takes Database and enabled transact to update state directly to database. Additionally it allows user to set all environment parameters.
- `evm_impl`: This module includes more specific implementations related to the EVM regarding state transitions.
- `inspector`: This module introduces the `Inspector` trait and its implementations for observing the EVM execution.
- `journaled_state`: This module manages the state of the EVM and implements a journaling system to handle changes and reverts.

External Crates:

- `alloc`: The alloc crate is used to provide the ability to allocate memory on the heap. It's a part of Rust's standard library that can be used in environments without a full host OS.

Re-exported Crates:

- `revm_precompile`: This crate is re-exported, providing the precompiled contracts used in the EVM implementation.
- `revm_interpreter`: This crate is re-exported, providing the execution engine for EVM opcodes.
- `revm_interpreter`::primitives: This module from the `revm_interpreter` crate is re-exported, providing primitive types or functionality used in the EVM implementation.

Re-exported Types:

- `Database`, `DatabaseCommit`, `InMemoryDB`: These types from the `db` module are re-exported for handling the database operations.
- `EVM`: The `EVM` struct from the `evm` module is re-exported, serving as the main interface to the EVM implementation.
- `EvmContext`: The `EvmContext` struct from the `evm_impl` module is re-exported, likely providing data structures to encapsulate EVM execution data.
- `JournalEntry`, `JournaledState`: These types from the `journaled_state` module are re-exported, providing the journaling system for the EVM state.
- `inspectors`, `Inspector`: The `Inspector` trait and its implementations from the `inspector` module are re-exported for observing the EVM execution.

Commit message:

feat: EvmBuilder and External Contexts (#888)
* rename main Evm structs, introduce wip external type

* tests

* Split evm and external context

* continue previous commit

* wip inspector handle register

* add few more handlers for frame and host

* Add instruction handle

* add instruction handler registration and Inspector wrap

* Rm Spec generic, more handlers, start factory

* move towards the builder, allow EVM modify

* wip on EvmBuilder and modify functionality

* EvmBuilder with stages wip

* Add wip stages for builer

* make handle register simple function, add raw instruction table, split external data from registers

* wip on simple builder functions and handler registry

* Examples and cleanup

* fix lifetime and fmt

* Add more handlers, deduct caller, validate tx agains state

* All handlers counted, started on docs, some cleanup

* renaming and docs

* Support all Inspector functionality with Handler

* Handler restructured. Documentation added

* more docs on registers

* integrate builder, fmt, move optimism l1block

* add utility builder stage functions

* add precompiles, fix bugs with journal spec

* spec to generic, optimism build

* fix optimism test

* fuck macros

* clippy and fmt

* fix trace block example

* ci fixes

* Flatten builder stages to generic and handler stage

* EvmBuilder doc and refactor fn access

* ignore rust code in book

* make revme compile, will refactor this in future

* Rename handles to Pre/Post Execution and ExecutionLoop

* fix optimism clippy

* small rename

* FrameData and docs

* check links mdbook

* comments and cleanup

* comment

* Add initialize interepreter to first frame

* clippy

* clippy2

documentation/src/crates/revm.md, after:

# Rust Ethereum Virtual Machine (revm)

The `crate` is focused on the implementation of Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) including call loop and host implementation, database handling, state journaling and powerful logic handlers that can be overwritten. This crate pulls Primitives, Interpreter and Precompiles together to deliver the rust evm.

Starting point of the documentation should be a [`Evm`](./revm/evm.md) that is main structure of EVM. Then i would recomend reading about the `EvmBuilder` that is used to create the `Evm` and modify. After that you can read about the `Handler` that is used to modify the logic of the Evm and it will tie with how introspection of Evm can be done. And lastly you can read about the `Inspector` that is legacy interface for inspecting execution that is repurposed as one of example of handler registers.

Modules:
- `evm`: This is main module that executed EVM calls.
- `builder`: This modules build the Evm, sets database, handlers and other parameters. Here is where we set handlers for specific fork or external state for inspection.
- `db`: This module includes structures and functions for database interaction. It is a glue between EVM and database. It transforms or aggregates the EVM changes.
- `inspector`: This module introduces the `Inspector` trait and its implementations for observing the EVM execution. This was main way to inspect EVM execution before the Builder and Handlers were introduced. It is still enabled through the Builder.
- `journaled_state`: This module manages the state of the EVM and implements a journaling system to handle changes and reverts.

Re-exported Crates:

- `revm_precompile`: This crate is re-exported, providing the precompiled contracts used in the EVM implementation.
- `revm_interpreter`: This crate is re-exported, providing the execution engine for EVM opcodes.
- `revm_interpreter`::primitives: This module from the `revm_interpreter` crate is re-exported, providing primitive types or functionality used in the EVM implementation.

Re-exported Types:

- `Database`, `DatabaseCommit`, `InMemoryDB`: These types from the `db` module are re-exported for handling the database operations.
- `EVM`: The `EVM` struct from the `evm` module is re-exported, serving as the main interface to the EVM implementation.
- `EvmContext`: The `EvmContext` struct from the `evm_impl` module is re-exported, likely providing data structures to encapsulate EVM execution data.
- `JournalEntry`, `JournaledState`: These types from the `journaled_state` module are re-exported, providing the journaling system for the EVM state.
- `inspectors`, `Inspector`: The `Inspector` trait and its implementations from the `inspector` module are re-exported for observing the EVM execution.
